.\"
.Dd March 12, 2025
.Dt whohosts 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm whohosts
.Nd try to determine who hosts a given domain
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl Vhv
.Op Fl s Ar check
.Op Ar domain Op ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
tool attempts to determine who hosts a given domain.
It does this by looking up DNS records relating to the
domain, querying WHOIS, or making HTTP requests to the
given domain name.
.Pp
If
.Nm
cannot make a reasonable guess based on that
information, then it will print the AS name matched to
the domain, either by its IP address, or by the IP
address of one of its NS records.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following options are supported by
.Nm :
.Bl -tag -width c_config_
.It Fl V
Print version number and exit.
.It Fl h
Display help and exit.
.It Fl s Ar check
Skip the given check(s).
Multiple checks can be given as a comma-separated list
or a repeated options.
.Ar check
must be one of "DNS", "WHOIS", or "HTTP".
.It Fl v
Be verbose.
Can be specified multiple times.
.El
.Sh DETAILS
If no domain names are given on the command-line, then
.Nm
will read names from stdin.
.Pp
In order to try to guess which organization is hosting
a given domain,
.Nm
performs the following checks:
.Bl -tag -width whois_
.It DNS
Perform a forward DNS lookup of the given domain name.
If a CNAME chain is found, each canonical name is
matched against a list of known patterns.
Otherwise, any A or AAAA records are used for a
reverse (i.e., PTR) lookup, and the resulting name, if
any, is matched against those patterns.
.Pp
If no CNAME nor A / AAAA records are found, then
.Nm
will look up the NS record for the domain and resolve
that name to an IP address.
.It WHOIS
Perform a WHOIS lookup against the IP address(es) of
the given domain name using Team Cymru's
.Xr whois 1
interface.
Any organization names are matched against a list of
known patterns or reported verbatim if not matched.
.It HTTP
Perform an HTTP "GET" request to the domain and
attempt to match the HTTP headers returned by the
server against a list of known patterns.
.El
.Pp
These checks are performed in order, unless the
.Fl s
flags are given.
The first successful match will terminate the lookup
unless the
.Fl a
flag is given.
.Pp
Note:
.Nm
will only perform checks and matches against one
result.
This can have the side-effect that the user sees
different results for the same domain when run
repeatedly, for example if the domain is multi-homed.
.Sh EXAMPLES
To report who is hosting the given domains:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ whohosts www.microsoft.com www.office.com www.netflix.com
www.microsoft.com: Akamai
www.office.com: Microsoft Azure
www.netflix.com: Netflix
.Ed
.Pp
To very verbosely check a larger set of domains:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
$ head -1000 input | whohosts -v -v -v -v
=> Checking www.apple.com...
==> Checking DNS of www.apple.com...
===> Getting CNAME chain for www.apple.com...
==> www.apple.com -> www-apple-com.v.aaplimg.com -> www.apple.com.edgekey.net -> e6858.dsce9.akamaiedge.net
====> Checking if e6858.dsce9.akamaiedge.net matches a known pattern...
www.apple.com: Akamai
[...]
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr host 1 ,
.Xr whois 1
.Sh HISTORY
.Nm
was originally written by
.An Jan Schaumann
.Aq jschauma@netmeister.org
in February 2025.
.Sh BUGS
Please file bugs and feature requests by emailing the
author or via GitHub issues or pull requests.
